Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain an American horror film called “The boy”.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
A woman named Greta Evans, travels to
the United Kingdom after being hired as
a nanny by a rich family. Upon her arrival, she
immediately takes off her shoes and looks around
the mansion because the owner is away. She is
surprised by the arrival of a man named Malcolm.
Malcolm himself is a local
delivery man, who stops by often.
Then Malcolm invites Greta for a tour. Not long
after, comes an elderly woman, Mrs Heelshire,
the house owner's wife. Mrs Heelshire asks
where Greta's shoes are. Greta shows where
she had taken off her shoes, and she is surprised
as they are gone. Mrs Heelshire casually says,
it is probably her son's doing. Then Mrs Heelshire
invites Greta to meet her husband, Mr Heelshire.
She also introduces her to the boy she is
supposed to babysit. But to her surprise,
this boy turns out to be a porcelain doll named
Brahms. She laughs, thinking it’s a joke. But
Mrs Heelshire and Mr Heelshire look serious.
Mrs Heelshire tells Greta, that many nannies had
applied for the job, but Brahms turned them down
because they are neither young nor beautiful.
The Heelshires teach Greta on taking care of
Brahms; leaving her a list of strict rules
to follow. This includes reading to Brahms in a
loud and clear voice, playing loud music for him,
keeping the leftovers in the fridge, setting a
mousetrap , and giving Brahms a goodnight kiss.
Mrs. Heelshire tells Greta that Brahms is
shy and only moves when no one is watching.
Mr and Mrs Heelshire then ask Brahms his
opinion on Greta. Greta feels strange with
what she sees. Mr Heelshire closes the
door for privacy. Before long, the two
of them come out and tell Greta that Brahms
like Greta and he wants her to babysit him.
Greta calls her sister to tell her
about her experience in the house.
The following day, Greta hears Mrs Heelshire,
who is angry because it turns out that Brahms
ransacked his room. Then, Mr Heelshire comes,
saying that they are going on vacation, leaving
Greta alone with Brahms. Mr Heelshire shows some
of Greta's schedules for the next few days.
After they leave, Greta begins to
ignore the rules, leaving Brahms alone.
Greta wakes up hearing strange noises in the
middle of the night, and Greta immediately
looks for the source of that strange noise.
While in front of a painting...
suddenly a hand
is coming right out of a wall to choke
her. It turns out to be a nightmare.
Then Greta checks into Brahms' room
and sees tears welling up in his eyes.
When examined, it turns out that the ceiling is
leaking. That night, suddenly, Greta gets a call.
But when she picks it up, no one speaks.
In the morning, Malcolm comes to deliver
groceries, and Greta asks a few questions about
Brahms. Malcolm tells her that Brahms was once
a real boy and was the only child of Mr. and Mrs.
Heelshire. But then, one day, their house caught
fire and after not being able to escape on time,
Brahms died. The doll is simply a coping mechanism
for the family to deal with their loss.
Malcolm then asks her out for a date that
night. Greta agrees. Greta gets ready for
the date. While on the phone with her sister,
Greta sees that Brahms is watching her,
and she closes the door. Greta continues
to shower. However, she is surprised to find that
her hair has been cut, and her dress and necklace
are missing. Greta then rushes to look for it;
she is lured to the attic by strange noises.
She climbs the ladder, and suddenly, the attic
ladder closes by itself. Greta is locked inside.
Malcolm comes to pick up Greta, and
Greta shouts for help, but Malcolm
doesn't hear her .And he leaves instead.
Greta then tries to find another way out.
Then suddenly, a huge shadow appears in front
of her face, shocking her. And she faints.
In the morning, when Greta wakes up, she is
mysteriously let out. She explains to Malcolm
what happened last night. It turns out that
the ladder can close and open on its own.
Greta asks Malcolm about Brahms once again, and he
states that there are two rumours about Brahms.
There are some people in the town who feel
sorry for him as they remember him being a
very good boy, but on the other hand, there
are others who claim that the boy was evil.
Later that night, Greta calls her sister
again. Her sister tells her that her abusive
ex-boyfriend named Cole, has been trying to find
out where she is. Greta hates Cole very much.
Greta suffered a miscarriage
after being beaten by Cole.
Greta then gets ready for bed and brushes her
teeth. Just as she finishes brushing her teeth,
she hears a strange noise from Brahms'
room. She approaches. And Brahms' room is
seen very messy with a lot of papers scattered.
She straightened Brahms' head which is tilted,
and suddenly the head moves by itself,
but it is just another nightmare.
The next day, Greta goes to Brahms' room and
see that Brahms has changed his position.
He sits with her schedule beside him as if he
is asking Greta to obey and do everything as
scheduled. Greta, who is shocked, immediately
runs to her room and tries to call her sister.
Suddenly the phone rings. As Greta answers the
phone, a child's voice is heard telling Greta
to follow the rules. Then a shadow appears under
the door, and a child's voice is heard. Greta now
realises that the doll holds far more secrets than
she had initially imagined. The doll is alive!
Greta then opens the door and sees a tray of food
filled with sandwiches that Brahms has given her.
At that time, Greta has mixed feelings. It
turns out that Brahms doesn't want to hurt her;
he just wants her attention. She then
calls Malcolm and tells him about it,
but Malcolm doesn't take her seriously.
A scene later reveals Mrs and Mr Heelshire writing
a letter to Brahms which states: “We cannot bear
to live with what you have become. The girl is
yours now.” After writing this letter, both Mr.
and Mrs. Heelshire stuff their coats with rocks
and commit suicide.
Greta, who now realises that Brahms is only the
spirit of an innocent young boy who wants to
be cared for, is then starting to be nice to
Brahms and do the things entrusted to her. The
following day, Malcolm comes with a letter from
Mrs Heelshire and Mr Heelshire. He also asks Greta
out for a walk that evening. However, Greta now
feels responsible for Brahms and refuses Malcolm's
invitation. Disappointed, Malcolm leaves. Greta is
then surprised by Brahms, who can move placesby himself.
The following day, Greta asks Malcolm to
come, to show that Brahms is actually alive.
At first, she fails to prove it because the
doll only moves when no one is watching.
So she then leaves the doll alone and it
moves. Eventually, Malcolm believes her.
That night, Malcolm stays with Greta. The two are
spending their time together . But their activity
is stopped by Brahms, who is possibly jealous.
Then the two of them have a conversation in the
kitchen. Malcolm realizes that Greta is getting
attached to him, he warns her by disclosing a
more detailed story surrounding Brahms’ death.
According to what he knows, when he was a child,
Brahms used to play with another girl of his
age named Emily Cribbs. On Brahms’ 8th birthday,
Emily went to play with Brahms in the
Heelshire mansion and never returned.
Her body was later discovered in the woods with
her skull crushed. When the cops arrived at the
mansion to question the young boy, it was already
burning down and Brahms was later found dead.
With this, Malcolm concludes that Brahms’ spirit,
which resides in the doll, could possibly evil.
In the morning, Greta’s abusive ex-boyfriend,
Cole, shows up at the mansion, intending to
force Greta back home. For Greta's safety,
Malcolm stays nearby. At night, Greta asks
the doll for help. Cole wakes up and sees a
message written in blood telling him to leave.
Believing it was done by either Greta or Malcolm,
he becomes furious. Realizing that Brahms did it
using rat blood, she tries explaining it
to him, but he refuses to believe her.
Eventually, Malcolm ends up joining them and he
too tries to convince Cole that there’s a lot
more to the doll than meets the eye. Cole gets a
fit of anger and he smashes the doll to pieces.
This is when the lights in the house start
to flicker. The house begins to shake and
they hear noises behind the walls. Cole tries
to figure out where the noise is coming from.
Then, suddenly, the mirror explodes. Cole falls
behind. From a hole behind it, emerges a man who
turns out to be the real now-adult Brahms wearing
a porcelain mask identical to the doll's face.
Brahms beats Cole and kills him. Malcolm
and Greta are frightened and run for safety.
Greta and Malcolm discover Brahms' room. There,
they find a doll made from Greta's missing dress,
hair, and jewelry sits in Brahms' bed. From that
room, Brahms has been watching Greta all this
time. Greta also finds the goodbye letter
from the Heelshires, revealing their plan
of leaving Greta behind as a mate for Brahms.
Then Brahms finds them. Brahms knocks out Malcolm,
threatening to kill him if Greta leaves. Greta
is able to escape the house but returns to save
Malcolm. Arming herself with a screwdriver, she
invokes the rules and forces Brahms to bed. He
asks for a good night kiss; when he tries to kiss
her, she stabs him. Brahms tries to choke her but
she pushes the weapon in deeper and he collapses.
Greta rescues Malcolm and they escape the house.
In the closing scene of the film, Brahms can be
seen putting back pieces of the doll together,
suggesting that he is probably still alive.
From all of this, we can deduce that Brahms
never died in the first place. He was always a
twisted little kid and he ended up murdering Emily
Cribbs on his 8th birthday. To save him from
the world, his parents burned their own house
and faked his death, and hid him in the walls of
their grand mansion. It also reflects on why Mr.
and Mrs. Heelshire committed suicide. Eventually,
their guilt outweighed their love for their child
and they decided to end their own suffering.
Also, there are several hints dropped throughout
the runtime of the film, that lead up to its
big reveal. In the beginning of the movie,
when Mrs. Heelshire tells Greta about the
rules of the house, she makes it clear that
Brahms likes his music loud. This suggests
that since Brahms lives in the walls, music
or anything that is being read out to him should
be loud enough to be audible through the walls.
The Heelshires also seem to be very particular
about keeping their house vermin free.
They emphasize on how she’s expected to
keep the mouse traps clean so that none
of the mice enter the walls of the house.
Mr. Heelshire also tells her that they save
all of their uneaten food and it is pretty
obvious that all of this food goes to Brahms.
Mrs. Heelshire tells Greta that Brahms
is shy and only moves when no one is
watching.
This shows that the doll was never actually
moving on its own but was being moved
by the real Brahms who lives in the walls.
That's my explanation for
the movie " The boy".
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications and leave a like to
help the channel out. Thank you for watching.